Newsletters: add 336 (2025-01-10) (#2121)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _topics/en/transitory-soft-forks.md

  - title: Transitory soft fork for disabling EC operations due to perceived quantum computer risks
    url: /en/newsletters/2025/01/03/#quantum-computer-upgrade-path

## Optional.  Same format as "primary_sources" above
# see_also:
#   - title:
#     link:

## Optional.  Force the display (true) or non-display (false) of stub
## topic notice.  Default is to display if the page.content is below a
## threshold word count
#stub: false

## Required.  Use Markdown formatting.  Only one paragraph.  No links allowed.
## Should be less than 500 characters
excerpt: >
  **Transitory soft forks** are soft forks that automatically revert
  after a period of time if Bitcoin users don't extend them or make
  them permanent.
---
The response to the [BIP50][] consensus failure included a transitory
soft fork that briefly limited the maximum block size.  The idea of
doing something similar for adding features was proposed as a compromise
between advocates of [OP_CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY][topic
op_checktemplateverify] and those who either doubted its utility or
preferred to wait for a better alternative.  Since then, the idea has

> also been proposed to derisk consensus changes designed to bug fixes and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
also been proposed to derisk consensus changes designed to fix bugs and
```
